All right, so let's pick back up
with our night's dialer solution.
When we were together last time,
we completed actually both option one and
option two.
You recall that I kind of jumped ahead
a little bit with factoring out that
long function for
the nearby paths calculation.
That's actually option two.
So, you've already done option one and
option two.
So, for what we're gonna talk about from
here forward, starting with option two as
your base branch,
if you've got the repo checked out,
you can start with option two and
we'll be working on option three.
You also recall that we were able
to test a little bit that we sort
of saw the performance benchmarking
of the growth of the time.
And we saw that it was literally
growing just a little bit more than
double every time we added one more hop,
scoring a little bit more than double.
And that fit very perfectly with
our theoretical analysis that
there was 2.222 paths on average that you
could go to from any one of the digits.
So that fit nicely, and it doesn't
always happen that the theory and
the practice, that the performance
benchmarking match up, but
it's kinda nice when you can see a really
clear illustration of that principle.
Well, obviously that's impractical.
We can't roll out to production something
that's gonna be working in an exponential
or even greater than
exponential sort of way.
So let's talk about some ways that
we can optimize our solution.
The first we wanna look at is we
want to observe that there are quite
a few things that we are doing
work over and over and over again.
We're repeating work, as I've said
multiple times in this course so far,
the key thing is that once you do some
work, don't keep redoing that work.
Find some way to remember or
take advantage of that work,
cuz that's the biggest drain on your
performance is when your solution causes
more work to be done just because it
didn't remember the work that it did.
Or it didn't take care of a piece of
information that it could have saved,
it just didn't save it.
So let's look at this diagram.
You recall this was kind
of our recursive diagram.
And the tree itself doesn't exist.
It's a conceptual tree, but it represents
the call stack tree, if you will.
And so, in this call stack tree,
we see that there are actually
quite a bit of repetition.
For example, you'll notice that the f(4,
4), that's the count paths 4, 4,
you'll notice that there are multiple
other places in the tree
where we get to f(4, 4).
So we've done that work over there on
the left, and then we come around to f(4,
4) and we redo all of that work.
We remake all of those calls
down that part of the tree.
And in fact, that's not the only place.
Even in just this small little diagram,
we also see all of these are being
repeated in a different part of the tree.
So all of that work is unnecessary,
and there's the technique for
remembering the work that we do, and
that technique is called memoization.
Now I don't know exactly,
I've read various different histories
of where this word comes from.
It's a little bit of an unusually
sounding or spelled word.
I don't know where it comes from, but
I will tell you how I remember it, okay?
This is my little mnemonic or something.
This is how I remember it.
Because memoization is about remembering,
it's about memorizing things.
So the way I remember it is it's like the
word memorization, but they forgot the r.
I don't know, that just helps me a little,
maybe it's too early in the morning for
those puns, but anyway,
that's how I remember memoization,
memorization without the r.
So, this might sound like this is
a somewhat more complex technique, but
again, it will feel potentially
a little anticlimactic.
In terms of how much
code we have to write,
it's a very small amount of code
change to our current existing
option two solution to retrofit
it to be able to be memoized.
Now, I do wanna point out that
memoization is not the magic hammer,
the Thor's hammer that can
just do anything, right?
It's not what you wanna
bang every problem with.
And so there are several caveats
that we wanna be aware of.
When we implement this, it will feel
like this magical thing that we
should just do all the time, everywhere.
But do keep in mind that there are only
specific circumstances where we should
employ this technique.
Let's switch back over to our code editor.
We're in dialer, and what we wanna do
is memoize the countPaths function.
So what does that mean?
What that means is that we
want to take that function and
cause it to cache the result, the output,
the return value from it,
for any unique set of input.
In other words, take the pairing of
inputs, here we have two integer inputs,
the starting digit in
the hopCount here on line 27,
take these two inputs and
treat them as if they're a key in a cache.
And then by keying against that hash,
if we ever call the same function with
exactly the same inputs, return exactly
the same output without recomputing.
Compute it the first time,
remember that value, and return it.
So this is actually
a quite common technique.
You see it much more commonly
in functional programming, but
the principle here requires something that
may not be super obvious to you at first.
It requires that this function
be what we call pure.
Again, another term from
functional programming.
So what we need to do is, essentially
adapt or wrap the countPaths function,
we're gonna use a utility that we're
gonna define called memoized to do that.
So I'm gonna go down here
to the bottom of the file,
that's just where I want to put it,
you can put it wherever you'd like, but
I'm gonna write a function called memoize.
And it takes in the function that
we want to do this adapting to,
which will be the countPaths function.
We will pass the countPaths function in.
It takes that in,
it needs to create a cache, remember.
I said that we want a cache to
remember the outputs from it.
So we'll just use a plain old
simple object for this cache.
We'll talk about a variety of
little caveats that exist with
generalized memoization.
All right, so
we won't need to produce a new function.
Remember, we're adapting, so we're gonna
create and return a new function which
I'll just call memoized, you could
call it really whatever you wanted.
The signature of the new function needs to
be the same as the original function, and
we're gonna take advantage
of the fact that we know
exactly what that signature is.
In other words, we're gonna avoid
trying to do any sort of general,
I can memoize any function.
That's not our goal here, we only
wanna memoize this specific function.
In fact we could have named it
memoized count path or something.
We only wanna do the minimal
work that we know is necessary.
If you were trying to write a general
utility for this, you would have to handle
any kind of inputs of any data types, they
could be objects, they could be arrays.
And constructing a key for
any arbitrary number of and
type of value inputs can
get quite complicated.
And that's why generally you would not
implement your own general memoization
utility.
But in specific cases where you know
I only need it for this function,
I fully recommend and think it's actually
better performance for you to use
a purpose-built memoization just for
that function or just for that purpose.
So that's what we're going to do here.
This is significantly more complicated
when you wanna do it in the general sense,
and in those cases you should just use
a utility from a library like Lodash or
Ramdo or something like that.
They all provide these memoized utilities.
So memoized needs to take in, I think
that I call them up here in countPaths,
what did I call them,
startingDigit hopCount.
I'm gonna shorten that,
I'm just gonna call it start and length,
but they're both gonna be integers
that are being passed in.
So it's the same signature.
And the fundamental job of a memoized
function is to check to make
sure that the thing we're asking for,
that is the inputs,
that those have not been seen before,
that they're not in the cache.
If they're not in the cache,
we need to do the underlying work.
So we're gonna just say if the cache
does not have, and we need a key.
And this is kind of stylistic choice here,
but I'm just gonna take the two
integers and concatenate them into
a string with a colon between them.
You could do anything, right?
Well, you wouldn't wanna do math on
the numbers unless you came up with
a mathematic equation,
like exponentiation,
that gave you a unique number.
You do want these keys to be unique, but
it really doesn't actually matter how
you choose this key, as long as you make
sure each input set is going to be unique.
You don't want any collisions where
you're accidentally overwriting or
returning the wrong value.
Okay, so we're gonna take the start and
then a colon and
then the length, Into that if statement.
And we will actually do the work.
So we'll set it, actually I'm just gonna
copy this cuz I don't wanna retype it.
We're actually gonna set
that value into the cache
by calling the function,
and then simply return it.
Now, to adapt our countPaths function with
memoize, which is a fairly straightforward
task, there's a couple of different
ways that you might choose to do it, and
some people kinda bristle a little
bit of how I like to do it.
But I literally just like to overwrite
the countPaths function with its memoized
version, because there's no
case where I ever want both
versions in my program at the same time.
So I will just take countPaths and
reassign it.
And we can do that because it
was a function declaration.
You can't do that if you assign
with const or something.
I will just reassign the result
of passing it into memoize.
And that's it for
the code changes that we made.
I promised you that it was a bit
anticlimactic to make the code changes.
That's it for the code changes.
If we go back to our slides, what we
can see then is that the things that
we were eliminating, those are just
calls that don't even need to get made.
And the bigger and bigger the tree it is,
the less and less of the tree actually
even exists because we just skip
the call and pull it out from the cache.
So conceptually, you should be able to
infer from this that it's gonna create
quite a significant amount of savings.
But I think it's gonna surprise you
just how much the savings is when we run
the code.
And that's where memoization sometimes
starts to feel kinda magical.
So let's switch over to the web page.
You might recall from before that
we were starting from digit 4 and
we were doing things around
the 20 to 25 hop count.
And we were starting to see that
it really started to add up.
So I'm gonna redo that.
And you can kind of remember the timings
that we had before and compare.
So we're gonna do 20 hop count from 4,
and it was 1 millisecond.
And then we're gonna go up to 21,
and it was 0.3 milliseconds.
And then we're gonna go up to 22,
and it's getting even shorter and
shorter because it's remembering
all of that work that it's doing.
And each time we add a new hop count,
there's only a couple of extra functions
that need to be called and
all the rest of that is now in our cache.
So I could go up to huge, huge
numbers that would have taken hours or
days to compute in the previous one, and
they run in fractions of a millisecond.
In fact, I've run this up
with very large numbers, and
I'm sure some of you
are starting to do this.
That 500 number,
which is a number that's so
big that it's overflowing
JavaScript's number time,
it still only took 6.3 milliseconds
to do all of those function calls.
Because most of that work
didn't need to be done.
We were just sort of naively
redoing the work over and over.
And by analyzing, I'm doing this
recursion in a lot of backtracking and
a lot of revisiting of the same kinds
of work, that's what clues us in.
Hey, maybe I ought to memoize this utility
and significantly improve the outcome.
So you might think, well,
okay, then we're done, right?
If I've memoized my recursion,
I should just memoize everything, and
I don't need to worry about
all of my performance issues?
We need to be very careful about some
of the caveats around memoization.
The first big caveat is that, yes, we
are indeed saving a whole bunch of calls.
But if we were to be doing some memory
profiling, anybody care to guess how many
thousands or millions of entries
are cached in our house?
Because think about all of the unique
different combinations of starting digit
and hop count that we've put into there.
It's gonna be a really,
really large number, and so
what we are doing is we're trading the
memory usage to get a faster performance.
And that's one of the classic trade
offs that we sometimes have to make.
We sometimes say I need it to run faster,
so
I'm just gonna have to
give up some more memory.